---
title: The EBA Framework
---

The EBA framework is a visual representation of the request made by DMCTT for an enterprise business architecture. Taking a top-down, modular approach, the framework presents the high-level relationship between government strategy, service delivery context, and technology enablement. The top two layers (light blue and green) are all about strategy and business intent as they define the business components of the ecosystem. Their focus is to give clarity to what we do and what citizens expect us to deliver. The bottom two layers (dark blue and orange) focus on future state technology and ideas for cross-government enablers via common services.

##Layer 1: Aligning to Our Business Context (light blue)

The top layer establishes the strategic drivers that influence and inform the rest of the EBA. First, we include the three overarching strategies that most affect our stakeholder groups. It is the goals of these three documents that collectively define the government’s business landscape and become our beacon for business alignment by the other architecture domains. From these strategies come the sector responses in the form of actions and initiatives that ministries believe will support the goals and outcomes of government. The artifacts used to establish the context for this layer include IMIT capital planning submissions, service plans, and the many line of business action plans.

##Layer 2: Defining the Business Environment (green)

This layer translates the strategic intent of government into a set of future state service needs. First, based on an aggregation of government strategies, the document establishes a set of service themes that have been identified as critical path initiatives for the next five years. It is important to note that this list is based on themes and not individual projects. The reason for this is that, from the analysis of the strategy documents, it became apparent that many sectors have similar underlying business needs that can best be resolved by tackling the issues from an enterprise perspective.

The second layer introduces the service design patterns we believe best describe the building blocks behind many government services. To be clear, not all services require all service design patterns; rather, their value comes from their ability for service owners to identify modular and repeatable components that aggregate into the service they need to deliver. This approach creates better outcomes for citizens by producing a consistent experience across program areas. For example, when a citizen needs to pay government for a service, they are not met with different processes and tasks each time. Leveraging service patterns also provides value to government by presenting a standardized set of capabilities that reduces the resources required to implement their initiative. Going back to the pay government example, rather than re-invent the wheel and design their own payment process, service owners can look to the service pattern and know that using it will expedite the delivery of their initiative and produce a more efficient and consistent service experience.

The final layer of this section is where the EBA framework starts to delve into the traditional architecture domains by laying out a set of business architecture principles that underpin the government’s overall business architecture. These tenets reflect an agreed upon set of common service architectures that should be considered when modifying or designing new government services. It is also the intersection point between business intent and technology enablement as we begin to organize the stated business principles around the OCIO’s five pillars. For example, the first principle of this layer discusses the need for blended choice across delivery channels. It is aligned with the mobility pillar because we want to stress the importance of, at a minimum, considering the applicability of a mobile channel as part of a service.

##Layer 3: Establishing Our New Architectural Foundation (dark blue)

This layer is where we fuse the traditional domains from enterprise architecture (TOGAF) and the technology enablers (five pillars) with the future state service needs of our citizens. A matrix is used where the intersection of an EA domain and a pillar informs the service owner of how a technology can empower them to meet their service transformation goals. For example, the intersection between the digital pillar and application architecture focuses on channel integration. In other words, as a service moves to the digital world, application design must consider how it interacts across all channels including in person, call-centre, mobile, and digital and be sure that they produce consistent results regardless of choice by the citizen.

Important to note is that while this layer is framed by technology enablers, its principles remain focused on service design and delivery. While the technology is important, it is critical that the EBA framework demonstrate to service owners’ how using a particular technology will help them meet their service goals and objectives. An example would be the intersection between the cloud pillar and data architecture. While cloud technology and data integration are important to understand when designing a service, the rationale for leveraging this technology is all about the portability of citizen data when and where they need it and so they don’t have to keep entering their information for each transaction.

##Layer 4: Collaborating for Better Results (orange) 

The final layer of the EBA framework is included to identify the common services that are available to service owners. Common services are cross-government business enablers that provide value to both the citizen and government. For the citizen, using common services means they will come to know what to expect when interacting with government regardless of the service they need. For government, using a common service will reduce the effort required to plan, build, and run a service. A prime example is Pay BC as it brings a standardized payment platform available to all government services.


